if you happen to be in burma these days
it's also called myanmar
make sure to visit this well-known site
a gold leaf
covered boulder sits upon the edge of a
cliff
and a small pagoda is built on top of it
the impressive thing about the rock
is that it only lightly touches the
cliff for support
in fact it looks like the boulder will
fall any minute now
but it has been standing like that for
centuries
on top of that the pagoda built upon it
is not really a recent addition
so it's quite an unusual sight to see
the rock
seems to be saying gravity i don't care
about that stuff
the legend has it that what keeps the
boulder in place
is a single strand of buddha's hair well
i don't know about that
but you can check out the rock for
yourself and see that it's not attached
to the cliff by anything
and yet it's not budged for 2500 years
something must be at work here huh if
there ever was a thing that said
i defy gravity out loud it's the stone
of davasco
the huge 300-ton boulder stands
precariously on the edge of a cliff
and rocks a little bit from side to side
in the wind
people even checked it by putting glass
bottles under one of its edges
they exploded with another movement of
the rock unfortunately today
you can't see this wonder of nature as
it was a century ago
in 1912 the boulder suddenly dropped
from its perch
which it had occupied for literally
hundreds of years
the people in the nearby town of tando
were so sad about this event
that 95 years later in 2007
they decided to restore the stone well
not exactly put it together chip by chip
they made a plastic replica of the rock
and put it on the same spot and even in
the same position
so even today coming by tando you can
see
its famous balancing boulder more of a
symbol now of course
because it's no longer rocking and only
weighs nine tons
but instantly recognizable nonetheless
remember this place from the movie close
encounters of the third kind
if not you should go watch it but not
right now
this place doesn't make you feel like
you're witnessing some magic
and doesn't really trick gravity right
before your eyes
sounds almost boring compared with the
rest of the sights on my list
right but the true mind-blowing feature
of devil's tower
is that scientists can explain how it
came to existence in the first place
you see it's an 867 foot rock formation
with walls so steep they're basically
vertical
but that isn't even the main thing this
piece of stone just rose
amid rolling plains of wyoming with
nothing like it for miles and miles
around
so how is it that such a flat landscape
could have suddenly given birth to
something so
tall there is a bound but nobody has the
answer yet
my theory well perhaps here is where the
earth has a giant audi belly button
well then you come up with a better
theory
you're walking on a desolate plane
nothing but dry cracked ground
under your feet no plants no animals
just tall mountains off in the distance
hard to believe this barren valley was
once teeming with life
it used to be the bottom of a lake as
you're walking in the quiet solitude
you notice a trail it looks as if
someone was dragging a heavy bag for
hundreds of feet
intrigued you follow the track it leads
you straight
then gently curves to one side or the
other
sometimes even making zigzags very odd
indeed
finally you see the source of the trail
but it only adds more mystery
it's a huge stone lying alone in the
middle of the plane
who would want to push a rock that far
the answer is no one
the stone moved by itself
it's a phenomenon called sailing stones
and it's observed in several places in
the u.s
in winter the entire valley and huge
rocks
some weighing as much as a horse are
iced over
this drastically reduces the friction
between the stone and the ground
when the wind blows the stone begins to
slide
once the ice melts the track remains on
the sand
and there sits a lonely traveler rock
our next stop is canada's abraham lake
it's frozen now
from a distance it looks like the
surface is covered in patches of snow
but as you get closer and step on the
ice
you see the white patches are frozen
bubbles inside the lake
looks like thousands of frozen jellyfish
but don't even try to break the ice to
investigate further
these bubbles are made of methane a
highly flammable gas
when any organic matter like leaves
grass
insects enters the lake it becomes food
for bacteria that release
methane as a byproduct that methane
turns into tens of thousands of frozen
disks as soon as it comes into contact
with frozen water
as the ice melts the bubbles burst and
sizzle
you can also see this phenomenon on some
shores of the arctic ocean
there the methane bubbles can be as big
as hot air balloons
it's a beautiful sight but very
dangerous
carhenge is the weirdest landmark of
nebraska
its author studied the real stonehenge
and created his own version out of old
cars as a tribute to his father
some cars stand like monoliths others
are connected into arches
when asked why he did all this the
creator of the construction said
why not another stonehenge lookalike was
found on the bottom of lake michigan in
2007.
there's a group of rocks in a circle and
carvings of a mastodon
this beast ceased existing over ten
thousand years ago
so the carving has to be older than that
its location is kept secret from the
public
good luck finding it angkor wad in
cambodia is the largest religious
monument in the world it takes days to
see all of it
and centuries to solve all its secrets
it's facing west
while all other temples of its kind
faced east where the sun rises
and all of its bass reliefs are read
counterclockwise
the opposite of normal in one of the
driest spots on earth
the atacama desert in chile there's a
hand coming out of the sand human
helplessness
vulnerability or the spirit that wins
over anything
everybody sees the statue their own way
and no one knows why it was placed in
such a remote location
right in the pavement outside the state
library of victoria in melbourne
there's another library a sinking one
is it symbol of disappearing knowledge
or a new civilization
breaking through the ground to bring new
wisdom
up to you in the financial district of
paris
there's a giant thumb which is an exact
replica of its creator's digit
it's been around since 1965 and weighs
the same as
three elephants it's not the only
monument of its kind
there are other huge thumbs by the same
artist spread across the world
the hagar kim meaning standing stones
site
in malta was completed around 3000 bce
some stone age genius most likely using
stone tools
managed to set the rocks in such a way
that they could show the beginning
and end of the year on march 21st and
september 21st
the sun is exactly in the middle
three thousand standing rocks were
spread over present-day brittany france
in the neolithic period
after centuries of trying scientists
still can't tell the purpose of this
largest collection of rocks in the world
it looks like it was created by a
culture related to stonehenge
which means travel and technology may
have been in place
long before we realized in 1923
a guy in florida who was dumped the day
before his wedding
started putting together the coral
castle a monument to lost love
how a five foot tall man with a fourth
grade education
managed to lift stone blocks eight times
as heavy as a hippo
all by himself will of course forever
remain his secret
sometimes lounging around in a jacuzzi
can be incredibly relaxing
but this hot body of water takes things
to a whole new level
deep in the amazon forests lies a
floating river
in the forested region of mayantayaku
that boasts temperatures so hot
that any person or animal that falls
into it
literally boils alive from the inside
out
that's right this river runs at an
unbelievable
196 degrees fahrenheit dang
that's hot locals use the water to brew
tea
and sometimes they cook with it while
this river's high temperature is
incredibly intriguing
what makes this natural phenomenon a
mystery
is the fact that no one can figure out
what makes the water so hot
according to geophysicist andres russo
boiling waters are typically attached to
an active volcano
or magmatic system like the boiling
river trail in yellowstone national park
in the u.s
but in the town of mayantoyaku there are
no active volcanoes within 400 miles
so what's heating it up so drastically
over the centuries residents of this
town believe that the river had magical
healing powers
and used it spiritually and medicinally
russo guesses that
hot geothermal waters pour in from
cracks in the earth
heating the temperature of the river but
this has yet to be scientifically proven
meanwhile if someone hunting animals
illegally
accidentally falls into the river and
boils alive
well then we'll have a poached poacher
sorry i couldn't help myself can you
believe
that there's a place on earth with its
own ecosystem and atmosphere
similar to another planet well start
believing
mobile cave located in southeastern
romania
remained closed in complete darkness for
a whopping
5.5 million years it wasn't until
workers discovered the cave when they
were looking for a place to build
that anyone learned about it scientists
carved out an
opening to the cave and found that a
completely sustained ecosystem was
thriving
inside as a pathway was carved through
the rock
past numerous tunnels scientists found a
lake of sulphuric water that stank like
rotten eggs
the air was filled with hydrogen sulfide
and had 100 times more carbon dioxide
than earth's air contains
needless to say this air is completely
toxic
what's even crazier is that a whole
ecosystem has been existing
in this cave with 33 species that can't
be found
anywhere else on earth this cave gives
us a glimpse of what could possibly
exist on other planets
with completely different atmospheres
how it managed to exist on earth all
this time
without anyone knowing is rather
unbelievable
isn't it now let's head south of the
equator to one of the most
isolated places on this planet easter
island in polynesia
this is where you can find nearly 900
moai statues created by the rapa nui
people
these figures can weigh up to 90 tons
which makes transporting them pretty
much
impossible so how did they construct and
move them for hundreds of years
dating from 1400 to 1650
the most bizarre theories out there put
it down to aliens
but something tells me the rapa nui
probably used a different
less extraterrestrial and more
exhausting method
they hired movers well maybe
now the name says it all the south
atlantic anomaly is part of
earth where natural radiation flows out
of control
astronauts who try to take a peek at
this dangerous zone
experience hallucinations and even
satellites can't take pictures of it
while paranormal enthusiasts swear it's
a portal to another dimension
science has an alternative explanation
this spot off the eastern coast of south
america
is where the earth's magnetic field is
weakest
this is apparently what causes the
strange phenomena
oh sounds like a theme park a little
another
impressive megalith this time in
zimbabwe it was once home to around 20
000 people
but it's now a ghost town yet to this
day there's no
explanation as to where these people
went there aren't any accounts of major
migrations
military conflict nothing there aren't
even any myths or legends connected to
it
which leaves us with one of the world's
greatest mysteries
this place off the western coast of
australia in the indian ocean
has very odd geological events huge
earthquakes
one after another wouldn't seem so
strange if this spot was a place where
two
tectonic plates meet but it isn't
the wharton basin is well within the
borders of the australian plate
but researchers are pretty sure that a
new fault line is forming here another
portal perhaps
maybe that would explain the planes that
vanish in an instant
poor australia has vile vortices on both
sides
heading over to the east there's the
loyalty islands
a lot of strange whirlpools were found
on this patch of the south pacific
as well as plenty of geologic activity
but what about the
island scientists say disappeared there
in 2012
well before you don your tin tinfoil hat
i'll let you know that there never
really was an island in that spot to
begin with
it was on maps sure but that was a
mistake from the start
probably due to someone goofing up the
coordinates so
technically scientists undiscovered this
island
they're on opposite ends of this planet
but they've got two things in common
ice and odd disappearances the north
pole was where an expedition of 129 men
got lost and found 150 years later
the south pole however has its own way
of terrifying us
some researchers in antarctica were left
speechless
when they found the remains of what
seemed like pre-human
alien civilizations oh come on now
during the first week of january 2018
unusually cold weather in the northeast
united states
froze the atlantic ocean in north
falmouth massachusetts
what's more the ocean was frozen so
thoroughly
that people were walking on the waves
now that's obviously
something you don't see every day on
february 20th and 21st
2018 people in the northeastern part of
the u.s
experienced one of the most
extraordinary weather events of recent
times
and it was a heat wave yep in february
in fact it was the most impressive
winter heat wave since official weather
records started in the 1800s
for example in freiburg maine people
were taking off their coats
after the temperature had risen to a
baffling 70 degrees fahrenheit
in fitchburg massachusetts confused
people put on
sandals when they saw the temperature
outside 80 degrees
the same was happening in harrisburg
pennsylvania where the temperature
reached 83 degrees and in wells maine
where thermometers showed 77 degrees
even though the island of newfoundland
in canada probably can't be called the
warmest place on earth
it's still not that cold but imagine you
must shovel snow in front of your house
just several days
before your summer vacation well that's
exactly what happened on the island in
june
2018. a cold storm that came from the
coast of newfoundland
covered several regions of the island
with a two inch layer of snow
even those who had been living on the
islands their whole life were impressed
nobody could remember that much snow so
late in the year
on top of that the temperature broke all
the records as well
during the summer in newfoundland it's
about 66 degrees fahrenheit
on average and 90 degrees on the hottest
day
but that infamous june shocked people
with only 37 degrees fahrenheit in the
morning
yeah that's pretty chilly